Documentation/mainboard/ocp/deltalake.md, before:

# OCP Delta Lake

This page describes coreboot support status for the [OCP] (Open Compute Project)
Delta Lake server platform.

## Introduction

OCP Delta Lake server platform is a component of multi-host server system
Yosemite-V3. Both were announced by Facebook and Intel in [OCP virtual summit 2020].

Delta Lake server is a single socket Cooper Lake Scalable Processor (CPX-SP) server.

Yosemite-V3 has multiple configurations. Depending on configurations, it may
host up to 4 Delta Lake servers (blades) in one sled.

The Yosemite-V3 system is in mass production. Facebook, Intel and partners
jointly develop Open System Firmware (OSF) solution on Delta Lake as an alternative
solution. The OSF solution is based on FSP/coreboot/LinuxBoot stack. The
OSF solution reached DVT exit equivalent status.

## Required blobs

Delta Lake server OSF solution requires:
- FSP blob: The blob (Intel Cooper Lake Scalable Processor Firmware Support Package)
  is not yet available to the public. It will be made public soon by Intel 
  with redistributable license.
- Microcode: Available through github.com:otcshare/Intel-Generic-Microcode.git.
- ME binary: Ignition binary will be made public soon by Intel with
  redistributable license.
- ACM binaries: only required for CBnT enablement. Available under NDA with Intel.

## Payload
- LinuxBoot: This is necessary only if you use LinuxBoot as coreboot payload.
  U-root as initramfs, is used in the joint development. It can be built
  following [All about u-root].

## Flashing coreboot

To do in-band FW image update, use [flashrom]:
    flashrom -p internal:ich_spi_mode=hwseq -c "Opaque flash chip" --ifd \
			-i bios --noverify-all -w <path to coreboot image>

From OpenBMC, to update FW image:
    fw-util slotx --update bios <path to coreboot image>

To power off/on the host:
    power-util slotx off
    power-util slotx on

To connect to console through SOL (Serial Over Lan):
    sol-util slotx

## Firmware configurations
[ChromeOS VPD] is used to store most of the firmware configurations.
RO_VPD region holds default values, while RW_VPD region holds customized
values.

VPD variables supported are:
- firmware_version: This variable holds overall firmware version. coreboot
  uses that value to populate smbios type 1 version field.
- bmc_bootorder_override: When it's set to 1 IPMI OEM command can override boot
  order. The boot order override is done in the u-root LinuxBoot payload.
- systemboot_log_level: u-root package systemboot log levels, would be mapped to
  quiet/verbose in systemboot as that is all we have for now. 5 to 8 would be
  mapped to verbose, 0 to 4 and 9 would be mapped to quiet.
- VPDs affecting coreboot are listed/documented in [src/mainboard/ocp/deltalake/vpd.h].

## Working features
The solution is developed using LinuxBoot payload with Linux kernel 5.2.9,
and [u-root] as initramfs.
- SMBIOS:
    - Type 0 -- BIOS Information
    - Type 1 -- System Information
    - Type 2 -- Baseboard Information
    - Type 3 -- System Enclosure or Chassis
    - Type 4 -- Processor Information
    - Type 7 -- Cache Information
    - Type 8 -- Port Connector Information
    - Type 9 -- PCI Slot Information
    - Type 11 -- OEM String
    - Type 16 -- Physical Memory Array
    - Type 17 -- Memory Device
    - Type 19 -- Memory Array Mapped Address
    - Type 32 -- System Boot Information
    - Type 38 -- IPMI Device Information
    - Type 41 -- Onboard Devices Extended Information
    - Type 127 -- End-of-Table
- BMC integration:
    - BMC readiness check
    - IPMI commands
    - watchdog timer
    - POST complete pin acknowledgement
    - Check BMC version: ipmidump -device
- SEL record generation
- Converged Bootguard and TXT (CBnT)
    - TPM
    - Bootguard profile 0T
    - TXT
    - SRTM
    - DRTM (verified through tboot)
		- unsigned KM/BPM generation
		- KM/BPM signing
		- memory secret clearance upon ungraceful shutdown
- Early serial output
- port 80h direct to GPIO
- ACPI tables: APIC/DMAR/DSDT/EINJ/FACP/FACS/HEST/HPET/MCFG/SPMI/SRAT/SLIT/SSDT
- Skipping memory training upon subsequent reboots by using MRC cache
- BMC crash dump
- Error injection through ITP
- Versions
    - Check FSP version: cbmem | grep LB_TAG_PLATFORM_BLOB_VERSION
    - Check Microcode version: cat /proc/cpuinfo | grep microcode
- Devices:
    - Boot drive
    - All 5 data drives
    - NIC card
- Power button
- localboot
- netboot from IPv6
- RAS (SMI handlers not upstreamed)
    - EINJ/HEST
    - error injection through ITP
    - memory error handling
    - PCIe error handling
    - PCIe live error recovery (LER)

## Stress/performance tests passed
- OS warm reboot (1000 cycles)
- DC reboot (1000 cycles)
- AC reboot (1000 cycle)
- Mprime test (6 hours)
- StressAppTest (6 hours)
- Ptugen (6 hours)

## Performance on par with traditional firmware
- coremark
- FIO
- Iperf(IPv6)
- Linpack
- Intel MLC (memory latency and bandwidth)
- SpecCPU
- stream

## Other tests passed
- Power
- Thermal
- coreboot address sanitizer (both romstage and ramstage)
- Intel selftest tool (all errors analyzed; applicable errors clean)

## Known issues
- HECI access at OS run time:
    - spsInfoLinux64 command fail to return ME version
    - ptugen command fail to get memory power
- CLTT (Closed Loop Thermal Throttling, eg. thermal protection for DIMMs)
- ProcHot (thermal protection for processors)

## Feature gaps
- flashrom command not able to update ME region
- ACPI BERT table
- PCIe hotplug through VPP (Virtual Pin Ports)
- RO_VPD region as well as other RO regions are not write protected
- Not able to selectively enable/disable core

## Technology

```eval_rst
+------------------------+---------------------------------------------+
| Processor (1 socket)   | Intel Cooper Lake Scalable Processor        |
+------------------------+---------------------------------------------+
| BMC                    | Aspeed AST 2500                             |
+------------------------+---------------------------------------------+
| PCH                    | Intel Lewisburg C620 Series                 |
+------------------------+---------------------------------------------+
```

[OCP]: https://www.opencompute.org
[OCP virtual summit 2020]: https://www.opencompute.org/summit/virtual-summit/schedule
[flashrom]: https://flashrom.org/Flashrom
[All about u-root]: https://github.com/linuxboot/book/tree/master/u-root
[u-root]: https://u-root.org/
[ChromeOS VPD]: https://chromium.googlesource.com/chromiumos/platform/vpd/+/master/README.md
[src/mainboard/ocp/deltalake/vpd.h]: https://review.coreboot.org/plugins/gitiles/coreboot/+/refs/heads/master/src/mainboard/ocp/deltalake/vpd.h

Commit message:

intel/xeon_sp/cpx: Hook up public microcode release
Change-Id: I7e575cb17e2004bd931f4fa1d05f17c4cdca29ba
Signed-off-by: Arthur Heymans <arthur@aheymans.xyz>
Reviewed-on: https://review.coreboot.org/c/coreboot/+/57444
Tested-by: build bot (Jenkins) <no-reply@coreboot.org>
Reviewed-by: Jonathan Zhang <jonzhang@fb.com>
Reviewed-by: Angel Pons <th3fanbus@gmail.com>

Documentation/mainboard/ocp/deltalake.md, after:

# OCP Delta Lake

This page describes coreboot support status for the [OCP] (Open Compute Project)
Delta Lake server platform.

## Introduction

OCP Delta Lake server platform is a component of multi-host server system
Yosemite-V3. Both were announced by Facebook and Intel in [OCP virtual summit 2020].

Delta Lake server is a single socket Cooper Lake Scalable Processor (CPX-SP) server.

Yosemite-V3 has multiple configurations. Depending on configurations, it may
host up to 4 Delta Lake servers (blades) in one sled.

The Yosemite-V3 system is in mass production. Facebook, Intel and partners
jointly develop Open System Firmware (OSF) solution on Delta Lake as an alternative
solution. The OSF solution is based on FSP/coreboot/LinuxBoot stack. The
OSF solution reached DVT exit equivalent status.

## Required blobs

Delta Lake server OSF solution requires:
- FSP blob: The blob (Intel Cooper Lake Scalable Processor Firmware Support Package)
  is not yet available to the public. It will be made public soon by Intel 
  with redistributable license.
- Microcode: Available through github.com/intel/Intel-Linux-Processor-Microcode-Data-Files.
  coreboot.org mirrors this repo and by default the correct binary is included.
- ME binary: Ignition binary will be made public soon by Intel with
  redistributable license.
- ACM binaries: only required for CBnT enablement. Available under NDA with Intel.

## Payload
- LinuxBoot: This is necessary only if you use LinuxBoot as coreboot payload.
  U-root as initramfs, is used in the joint development. It can be built
  following [All about u-root].

## Flashing coreboot

To do in-band FW image update, use [flashrom]:
    flashrom -p internal:ich_spi_mode=hwseq -c "Opaque flash chip" --ifd \
			-i bios --noverify-all -w <path to coreboot image>

From OpenBMC, to update FW image:
    fw-util slotx --update bios <path to coreboot image>

To power off/on the host:
    power-util slotx off
    power-util slotx on

To connect to console through SOL (Serial Over Lan):
    sol-util slotx

## Firmware configurations
[ChromeOS VPD] is used to store most of the firmware configurations.
RO_VPD region holds default values, while RW_VPD region holds customized
values.

VPD variables supported are:
- firmware_version: This variable holds overall firmware version. coreboot
  uses that value to populate smbios type 1 version field.
- bmc_bootorder_override: When it's set to 1 IPMI OEM command can override boot
  order. The boot order override is done in the u-root LinuxBoot payload.
- systemboot_log_level: u-root package systemboot log levels, would be mapped to
  quiet/verbose in systemboot as that is all we have for now. 5 to 8 would be
  mapped to verbose, 0 to 4 and 9 would be mapped to quiet.
- VPDs affecting coreboot are listed/documented in [src/mainboard/ocp/deltalake/vpd.h].

## Working features
The solution is developed using LinuxBoot payload with Linux kernel 5.2.9,
and [u-root] as initramfs.
- SMBIOS:
    - Type 0 -- BIOS Information
    - Type 1 -- System Information
    - Type 2 -- Baseboard Information
    - Type 3 -- System Enclosure or Chassis
    - Type 4 -- Processor Information
    - Type 7 -- Cache Information
    - Type 8 -- Port Connector Information
    - Type 9 -- PCI Slot Information
    - Type 11 -- OEM String
    - Type 16 -- Physical Memory Array
    - Type 17 -- Memory Device
    - Type 19 -- Memory Array Mapped Address
    - Type 32 -- System Boot Information
    - Type 38 -- IPMI Device Information
    - Type 41 -- Onboard Devices Extended Information
    - Type 127 -- End-of-Table
- BMC integration:
    - BMC readiness check
    - IPMI commands
    - watchdog timer
    - POST complete pin acknowledgement
    - Check BMC version: ipmidump -device
- SEL record generation
- Converged Bootguard and TXT (CBnT)
    - TPM
    - Bootguard profile 0T
    - TXT
    - SRTM
    - DRTM (verified through tboot)
		- unsigned KM/BPM generation
		- KM/BPM signing
		- memory secret clearance upon ungraceful shutdown
- Early serial output
- port 80h direct to GPIO
- ACPI tables: APIC/DMAR/DSDT/EINJ/FACP/FACS/HEST/HPET/MCFG/SPMI/SRAT/SLIT/SSDT
- Skipping memory training upon subsequent reboots by using MRC cache
- BMC crash dump
- Error injection through ITP
- Versions
    - Check FSP version: cbmem | grep LB_TAG_PLATFORM_BLOB_VERSION
    - Check Microcode version: cat /proc/cpuinfo | grep microcode
- Devices:
    - Boot drive
    - All 5 data drives
    - NIC card
- Power button
- localboot
- netboot from IPv6
- RAS (SMI handlers not upstreamed)
    - EINJ/HEST
    - error injection through ITP
    - memory error handling
    - PCIe error handling
    - PCIe live error recovery (LER)

## Stress/performance tests passed
- OS warm reboot (1000 cycles)
- DC reboot (1000 cycles)
- AC reboot (1000 cycle)
- Mprime test (6 hours)
- StressAppTest (6 hours)
- Ptugen (6 hours)

## Performance on par with traditional firmware
- coremark
- FIO
- Iperf(IPv6)
- Linpack
- Intel MLC (memory latency and bandwidth)
- SpecCPU
- stream

## Other tests passed
- Power
- Thermal
- coreboot address sanitizer (both romstage and ramstage)
- Intel selftest tool (all errors analyzed; applicable errors clean)

## Known issues
- HECI access at OS run time:
    - spsInfoLinux64 command fail to return ME version
    - ptugen command fail to get memory power
- CLTT (Closed Loop Thermal Throttling, eg. thermal protection for DIMMs)
- ProcHot (thermal protection for processors)

## Feature gaps
- flashrom command not able to update ME region
- ACPI BERT table
- PCIe hotplug through VPP (Virtual Pin Ports)
- RO_VPD region as well as other RO regions are not write protected
- Not able to selectively enable/disable core

## Technology

```eval_rst
+------------------------+---------------------------------------------+
| Processor (1 socket)   | Intel Cooper Lake Scalable Processor        |
+------------------------+---------------------------------------------+
| BMC                    | Aspeed AST 2500                             |
+------------------------+---------------------------------------------+
| PCH                    | Intel Lewisburg C620 Series                 |
+------------------------+---------------------------------------------+
```

[OCP]: https://www.opencompute.org
[OCP virtual summit 2020]: https://www.opencompute.org/summit/virtual-summit/schedule
[flashrom]: https://flashrom.org/Flashrom
[All about u-root]: https://github.com/linuxboot/book/tree/master/u-root
[u-root]: https://u-root.org/
[ChromeOS VPD]: https://chromium.googlesource.com/chromiumos/platform/vpd/+/master/README.md
[src/mainboard/ocp/deltalake/vpd.h]: https://review.coreboot.org/plugins/gitiles/coreboot/+/refs/heads/master/src/mainboard/ocp/deltalake/vpd.h
